P061: Reinforcement learning for an intelligent intruder
Primary supervisor: Edmund Hunt
Co-supervisor(s): James Ward (University of Bristol)
Suitable for: MEng;MSc;
Capacity: 1
Project description (including the motivating real-world problem and stakeholders):
The field of multi-robot patrolling is concerned with effectively monitoring an environment for
security or observation purposes, potentially in the presence of adversaries that seek to gain
undetected access to the environment. This is of interest to governmental or private organisations
concerned with infrastructure security, and conservation or research work involving environmental
monitoring. To assess the patrol strategies used in such a situation, models of potential attackers are
necessary, and the more intelligent and realistic the attacker model, the more useful our analysis.
We seek to create a reinforcement learning-based adversary that operates under realistic
constraints to effectively attack patrol systems using unknown strategies.
The student will: (1) design and test an ML architecture utilising on-line, one-shot reinforcement
learning to maximise its probability of successful attack against simulated patrol systems, and, as a
possible extension, (2) investigate the ability of patrol strategies to effectively disrupt the learning of
such an adversary.
45
The startpoint for the student would be our existing, non ML-based intelligent adversary model. This
would be integrated with a new ML model and RL environment created in Python with
Keras/Tensorflow, using existing patrol data from extensive simulation work. The output of this work
would be a comparison of the performance of the ML-based adversary with our existing adversary
models.
References:
James C. Ward and Edmund R. Hunt, An Empirical Method for Benchmarking Multi-Robot Patrol
Strategies in Adversarial Environments, Proceedings of ACM SAC Conference (SAC’23) 2023
N. Basilico, Recent Trends in Robotic Patrolling, Current Robotics Reports 3, 2 (June 2022), 65–76
Bruce et al., One-Shot Reinforcement Learning for Robot Navigation with Interactive Replay, 31st
Conference of Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2017), 2017
Keywords: reinforcement learning, machine learning, simulation, robotics, patrolling, security